# Drug_Design_Using_Machine_Learning
This project was done to determine the lipophilicity of drugs

Drug design entails the discovery of novel medications using the knowledge gained on biological targets. The process requires molecular designs that are complementary in charge and shape to the biomolecular target with which they interact and bind to (Reynolds et al., 2010). Selection of biomolecules as a drug target depends on the evidence that modulation of the target will be disease modifying and its ability to be modulated when it binds to a small molecule, which is followed by cloning, production and purification of protein to establish a screening essay (Ganellin et al., 2013, Yuan et al., 2013).

Lipophilicity is an important physicochemical property that plays a crucial role in determining ADMET (absorption, distribution, metabolism, excretion, and toxicity) and suitability of drug candidates. It is the ability of a chemical compound to dissolve in non-polar solvents, that is, the ability of lipids to allow drugs to have effect in the human body and is peculiar in drug design for library screening (Tsantili et al., 2017). The International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry (IUPAC) described lipophilicity as the affinity of a molecule for a lipophilic environment. This is measured by the distribution activities of a biphasic system, which is either a solid-liquid one or liquid-liquid system (Kempinska, 2019). It entails the solute-solvent interactions that supply to the spreading of a solute between water and organic solvent in conditions that are in equilibrium. The optimal site of lipophilicity as well as knowledge of the efficiency indices will greatly contribute to the overall quality of drug candidates at various levels of discovery (Arnott and Planey, 2012). To optimize oral bioactivity, lipophilicity has been regarded as an indicator in drug discovery metrics  to optimize drug-like compounds (Zamora et al., 2022). It is expressed as the logarithm of n-octanol partition coefficient (log P) (Surat, 2021). 
Log P = log Co/log Cw	
